Create sample-policy-use-case.md (#1792)
harness/developer-hub: docs/platform/Governance/14_Policy-as-code/sample-policy-use-case.md

:::

Harness provides governance using Open Policy Agent (OPA), policy management, and Rego policies.
You can enforce policies in the following ways:

You can enforce policies in the following ways: 

* Enforce policies at a scope: Create a policy and apply it to all pipelines in your account, organization, and project. Policy evaluation occurs on pipeline-level events like On Run and On Save.
For more information, go to [Harness Policy As Code quickstart](/docs/platform/Governance/Policy-as-code/harness-governance-quickstart).

* Enforce policies at any stage: Create a policy step, add a policy set, and provide a JSON payload. Whenever the pipeline reaches the policy step, policy evaluation occurs. Data such as resolved expressions can be evaluated when the pipeline runs. Evaluating policies can lead to pipeline execution failures.

This topic describes how to add a policy step to a stage.

## Policy samples

### Connector policy samples

#### Enforce authorization type while configuring a Kubernetes connector

Enforce authorization type to prevent users from setting up connectors that may not be in compliance or standard with the account owner's guidelines. 

> Here is a sample policy that you can evaluate **On Save** event for a connector:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is a sample policy that you can evaluate using the **On Save** event for a Harness connector:
```

}

```

#### Enforce access control for a specific connector at runtime while configuring the pipeline

The administrator can control which users can select a specific connector for pipeline configuration and pipeline execution.

Here is a sample policy to enforce which users and user groups can deploy and build using the connector:

```TEXT
package connector

# Choose a connector type to check
connectorType := "K8sCluster"
# Choose one or more user groups, identified by the "indentifier" property
AllowedUserGroups := ["_project_all_users"]

deny[msg] {
	cType := input.entity.type

	# Check the connector type is the one we need
	cType == connectorType

	# Check the user groups from the connector are contained in the allowed list
	not contains(input.metadata.userGroups)

	msg := sprintf("Only user groups %s are allowed for connector type %s'", [AllowedUserGroups, cType])
}

contains(userGroups) {
	identifier := userGroups[_].identifier
	AllowedUserGroups[_] = identifier
}
```

#### Enforce the connector naming conventions when users add a new connector

Administrators can enforce naming conventions for connectors created in the Harness account.

> Here is a sample policy to do this, that can be applied **On Save** event for connector:

Reviewer: You bold On Save here but not earlier in the doc. I would only bold it when you are referring to the UI setting On Save itself.

	)
}
```

#### Enforce a stage templates use in a pipeline

Enforce policies for the usage of an approved stage template in a pipeline. 
Here is a sample policy that can be applied **On Save** or **On Run** events for a pipeline:

```TEXT
package pipeline

stageType := "Deployment"
template := "my_stage_template"

# Deny a pipeline if the stage type above does not
# have a template at all
deny[msg] {
	stage = input.pipeline.stages[_].stage

	# Check if the stage matches but doesn't have a template
	stage.type == stageType
	not stage.template

	# Show a human-friendly error message
	msg = sprintf("Stage %s has no template, it must use template %s", [stage.name, template])
}

# Deny a pipeline if the stage type above does not
# use the template and version required
deny[msg] {
	stage = input.pipeline.stages[_].stage

	# Check if the stage matches but the template ref
	# or version are not matching
	stage.type == stageType
	stage.template.templateRef != template

	# Show a human-friendly error message
	msg = sprintf("Stage %s uses the wrong template, it must use template %s", [stage.name, template])
}

```

#### Enforce step templates to be used in a pipeline

> Enforce the usage of step template in a pipeline. This ensures the correct steps and approved steps are leveraged.
> Here is a sample policy that can be applied **On Save** or **On Run** event for a pipeline:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enforce the usage of a step template in a pipeline. This ensures the correct and approved steps are used.
Here is a sample policy that can be applied using the **On Save** or **On Run** event for a pipeline:
```

```TEXT
package pipeline

stepType := "Policy"
template := "my_template"

# Deny a pipeline if the step type above does not
# have a template at all
deny[msg] {
	stage = input.pipeline.stages[_].stage
	step = stage.spec.execution.steps[_].step

	# Check if the step matches but doesn't have a template
	step.type == stepType
	not step.template

	# Show a human-friendly error message
	msg = sprintf("In stage %s, step %s has no template, it must use template %s", [stage.name, step.name, template])
}

# Deny a pipeline if the step type above does not
# use the template and version required
deny[msg] {
	stage = input.pipeline.stages[_].stage
	step = stage.spec.execution.steps[_].step

	# Check if the step matches but the template ref
	# or version are not matching
	step.type == stepType
	step.template.templateRef != template

	# Show a human-friendly error message
	msg = sprintf("In stage %s, step %s uses the wrong template, it must use template %s", [stage.name, step.name, template])
}
```

#### Enforce the stage structure of a pipeline

> Enforce policies to ensure pipelines are designed with the recommended or mandatory structure. This ensures pipeline designers have the freedom to design a pipeline while following the guard rails. 
> Here is a sample policy that can be applied **On Save** event for a pipeline:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enforce policies to ensure pipelines are designed with a recommended or mandatory structure. 

This ensures pipeline designers have the freedom to design a pipeline while following the guardrails. 

Here is a sample policy that can be applied using the **On Save** event for a pipeline:
```

```TEXT
package pipeline

stage_order := ["OPA check", "deploy"]

# Deny a pipeline if stages do not execute in the
# correct order. This will check that the named stages
# in the array above are in the right order, ignoring
# other stages.
deny[msg] {
	# Run through the order rules array
	item = stage_order[i]
	prev = stage_order[i - 1]
	index = getIndex(item, input.pipeline.stages)
	prevIndex = getIndex(prev, input.pipeline.stages)

	# Makes sure the current rule is after the previous
	# rule in the step order
	index < prevIndex

	# Show a human-friendly error message
	msg = sprintf("Stage order is incorrect %s should be after %s", [item, prev])
}

getIndex(str, stages) = result {
	stage = input.pipeline.stages[i].stage
	str == stage.name
	result = i
}
```

#### Enforce steps in a pipeline

Enforce policies to ensure mandaroty steps are configured in a pipeline. 

> Here is a sample policy that can be applied **On Save** or **On Run** event for a pipeline:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is a sample policy that can be applied using the **On Save** or **On Run** event for a pipeline:
```

}

# Steps that must be present in every deployment
required_steps = ["JiraUpdate","HarnessApproval"]

contains(arr, elem) {
	arr[_] = elem
}
```

#### Enforce step order in a pipeline

Enforce policies for the ordering of steps that are configured in a pipeline. 
Here is a sample policy that can be applied **On Save** or **On Run** event for a pipeline:

```TEXT
package pipeline

step_order := ["Get version", "Run OPA policy"]

# Deny a pipeline if steps do not execute in the
# correct order, this will check the steps in every
# stage
deny[msg] {
	stage = input.pipeline.stages[_].stage

	# Run through the order rules array
	item = step_order[i]
	prev = step_order[i - 1]
	index = getIndex(item, stage)
	prevIndex = getIndex(prev, stage)

	# Makes sure the current rule is after the previous
	# rule in the step order
	index < prevIndex

	# Show a human-friendly error message
	msg = sprintf("Step order is incorrect %s should be after %s", [item, prev])
}

getIndex(str, stage) = result {
	item = stage.spec.execution.steps[i]
	str == item.step.name
	result = i
}
```

### Secret policy samples

#### Ensure there are no principals in the secret secrets.

> Enforce policies to ensure that the secrets configured in Harness are configured by the correct group. 
> Here is a sample policy that can be applied **On Save** event for a secret:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enforce policies to ensure that the secrets configured in Harness are configured by the correct [principal](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/role-based-access-control/rbac-in-harness/#principal). 
Here is a sample policy that can be applied using the **On Save** event for a secret:
```
